[Music]
snow was falling that quiet morning when
we pulled into wolfdog USA this place a
roadside exhibit about an hour outside
of Anchorage was holding 29 wolves and
wolf-dogs this was an illegal operation
because the owner didn't have the
special permits needed to own wolves and
wolf-dogs well the situation these
animals are in is appalling the animals
are on very short chains between six and
eight feet there soars around their neck
of they spend all day long just running
around in circles
their water bowls are empty the food
bowls are empty
there's staked independently they can't
be with their friends and it's not a
good situation so was in the rat in the
wild couldn't travel up to 50 miles a
day in search of food and defending
their territory
they're also pack animals and so I
thought has provided Lockwood Animal
Rescue Center with it enclosures for
these animals that are huge
[Music]
before the state was left with no other
option but to put them down I fall
quickly joined forces with the Lockwood
Animal Rescue Center the Alaska State
special prosecutor and local agencies to
rescue these animals and take them to a
sanctuary in California who has built
enclosures just for them
wolves are shy by nature so they try to
get away rather than come toward you the
handlers were excellent and one by one
the change they had been tethered to
were cut and they were finally able to
go beyond the few feet appointed to them
for so long
[Music]
the operation ran very smoothly through
the short day and long Alaskan winter
night and thankfully no animals needed
to be tranquilized to place them to the
creeks we're gonna walk them in a crate
no big deal okay
handlers used what is known as a Wye
pole to give them an extra push into the
transport crates normal dog crates can't
hold a wolf or a wolf dog the sheer
power and wild nature of these animals
are a force to reckon with special
reinforced crates were used and then
loaded onto the truck
[Music]
next stop the veterinary clinic where
all of the animals were given checkups
and sterilized
an army of volunteering Aryans assembled
to spay and neuter the wolves and
wolf-dogs before their long journey to
Fraser Park California
[Music]
these super-sized enclosures have
resistant chain-link fencing ten feet
high
buried six feet across to keep the walls
from digging themselves out and allow
the animals to have plenty of space to
run and play and live the rest of their
lives in an environment that is suited
to them increasingly people are breeding
wolf dogs thinking they'll make good
pets and unfortunately soon find out
otherwise these animals are kept chained
up for life and suffer a great deal
[Music]
these part wolf part dog animals are
incredibly beautiful but they're
unpredictable and are ultimately not
able to live in anyone's backyard they
require special care and conditions that
are rarely met in a household don't buy
our breed wolf dogs wild animals belong
in the wild
[Music]